
Console lines
+===========+

Building from distro:
--------------------

    ./configure
    make
    make install

Building from CVS tree:
----------------------

    # these are need to be done only eventually, when .am or .ac change
    # automake min 1.7.8, autoconf min 2.59
    autoheader 
    aclocal
    automake -acf
    autoconf
    # created all files

    ./configure
    make

Playing:
-------

Keys:
    LEFT, h             : move cursor one cell to the left
    RIGHT, l            : move cursor one cell to the right
    UP, k               : move cursor one cell up
    DOWN, j             : move curror one cell down
    SPACE, MouseLeft    : select chip or move jumping chip to selected cell
    'q'                 : quit
    Ctrl-L              : redraw screen

Game Rules:
----------

The game runs on a 9 by 9 board. Every cell of the board can be empty or
occupied by a chip of a color. There are 5 colors : red, green, blue, yellow,
and purple (may look different on some terminals). When the game starts, three
chips are placed on the board randomly. During each turn, player can move a
chip from one cell to another, given that there is an unobstructed path between
such two cells, that can be walked by moving the chip strictly horizontally or
vertically. After the player's move, the board is checked for the lengths of
adjacent chips of the same color. If any such lengths in amount of 5 or more
chips are found (in any direction, horinontal, vertical or diagonal), all chips
in these lengths are expelled from the board, the computer skips it's move, and
control goes back to the player. If no chips were expelled, the computer places
another 3 chips, choosing random color and position, and the chip lenghts are
checked for, and expelled if found, again. If there are less than 3 empty cells
at the time computer has to make a move, or no empty cells after the computer
has made it's move, the game ends.

The objective of the game is to stay in the game as long as possible, by
preventing the board to get filled up with chips until there is no space left.

Scoring:
-------

Any time the 5 or more chips of the same color are expelled, points are
awarded to the player. The points are awarded regardless of whether the
chips were removed after the player's move, or computer's move.

For every expelled chip up to 5 chips, one point is awarded.
If more than 5 chips were expelled, then player gets additional points,
as many as the amount of total chips expelled multiplied by the
amount of expelled chips over 5.

    5 chips : 5 points
    n chips (n > 5) : n + n * (n - 5)

(The actual formula used by the game is (N + N * (N - 5)), since no less than
5 chips can be expelled anyway)

In other words, it's really rewarding to build constructs that make more
than 5 chips expelled.

